In this lecture, you'll learn about the Spine and Leaf datacenter network design. So you can see
the traditional campus design here,
I covered this in the last lecture with the core, distribution, and access layers. And in the example here,
we've got the Main Building and Building 1, and we could have the Main Building now that is actually
being a Data Center with our servers in there. And with the old style traditional data center environments,
this traditional core, distribution, and access layer would work just fine where we had mostly North-South
traffic flows.
What I mean by North and South bound traffic flows is where the traffic is mainly flowing up and down.
So traffic would be going up and down the data center, and then down to the clients in the other buildings.
So you can see here,
it's going up from the building through the access and distribution layer to the core layer and then back
down from the core layer to the distribution and access layer. So you can see with our North-South bound traffic
flows, that's going from the clients over here to the servers in the data center,
and the traditional campus design works really well where most of your traffic flows are going in that
North and South bound direction.
But in modern data centers, there's a trend nowadays where we see a lot more traffic going in East
and West bound direction,
and what I mean by that is between the actual servers themselves in the data center. The reason for
that is that data centers are getting bigger.
There's a lot of virtualization now,
so many virtual servers and those servers might be clustered where an app is spread across multiple
different servers and all of those servers need to talk to each other.
We also might have an application, for example, which has got a web-based front end on a server, and that's
talking to a backend database on another server as well.
So again, that traffic, rather than going North and South bound through the different layers,
would be going East-West bound between the different servers themselves.
And while the traditional campus design works well where most of your traffic is North and South bound,
it's not so good where a lot of your traffic is East and West bound.
And as I said, in modern data centers, you do have a lot of East and West flowing traffic.
So because of that, there is another network design that's very popular in data centers now, and that
is Spine-Leaf data center design.
Now, you're probably looking at this now and thinking, wait a minute, Neil, that looks pretty much
exactly the same as a Collapsed Core and Distribution layer with the traditional model,
and yes, right now it does.
So going back to the traditional model again, you can see here that we pair up our distribution layer
switches and we also pair up our core layer switches. That gives us some load balancing and also gives
us redundancy there as well, because we wouldn't want to have a single point of failure.
And this example from the Spine-Leaf design right now, it looks the same right now.
But the thing is, it's actually designed where we can get additional scalability and better performance
for our East-West traffic flows,
and what we can do is with the scalability, we can just add on additional switches in the East and
West directions.
So you can see here, if I've got a larger data center, I can just add additional Spine switches and
additional Leaf switches. With the Spine-Leaf design, we've got the Spine switches here, which
are at a higher level in the hierarchy.
We don't have our servers connected there.
Our servers are connected into our Leaf layer switches and we have got a mesh between.
So all of our Leaf switches are connected to all of our Spine switches,
and as I said, it's really easy to scale this out just by adding additional switches in the East and
West direction. So that gives us the good scalability.
It also gives us good performance as well, because if any of the servers in the data center need to
talk to each other, it's only going to be a maximum of two hops away.
Meaning if, for example, this server here is talking to the server on the right,
it's one hop at the Spine switch and then it goes down to another hop at the Leaf switch.
So that gives us the good performance and also the good scalability, where we've got a lot of East and West bound traffic.
It still works well.
We are still going to have North and South bound traffic here as well.
But it does give us those gains where we've got that additional East and West traffic.
Okay, that's everything I needed to
tell you about the Spine-Leaf data center network design.
I'll see you in the next lecture, where we're going to be back onto our main campus networks, which
are the main focus of the CCNA exam.
We'll start getting into detail on our VLANs.